CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to AD-SDLC

Thank you for your interest in contributing to AD-SDLC! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to maintain a welcoming environment for all contributors.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- Git 2.30+
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) 2.0+
- Claude Code CLI

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/claude_code_agent.git
   cd claude_code_agent
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Branch Naming

Use descriptive branch names following this pattern:

- `feature/description` - New features
- `fix/description` - Bug fixes
- `docs/description` - Documentation updates
- `refactor/description` - Code refactoring
- `test/description` - Test additions or updates

### Commit Messages

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/). Each commit message should follow this format:

```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

#### Types

- `feat`: A new feature
- `fix`: A bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only changes
- `style`: Changes that don't affect the meaning of the code
- `refactor`: Code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `perf`: Performance improvement
- `test`: Adding or updating tests
- `chore`: Changes to build process or auxiliary tools
- `ci`: Changes to CI configuration

#### Examples

```
feat(agent): add token usage tracking to collector

fix(workflow): resolve race condition in parallel worker execution

docs(readme): add CI/CD section with workflow descriptions
```

### Code Style

- Run linter before committing: `npm run lint`
- Run formatter: `npm run format`
- Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`

### Testing

- Write tests for new features
- Update tests when modifying existing functionality
- Aim for 80%+ code coverage

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run tests with coverage
npm test -- --coverage

# Run specific test file
npm test -- path/to/test.spec.ts

# Run E2E tests only
npm run test:e2e

# Run unit tests only
npm test -- tests/controller
```

#### Test Categories

| Category | Location | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| Unit Tests | `tests/{module}/` | Individual component testing |
| E2E Tests | `tests/e2e/` | Full pipeline and integration testing |
| Orchestration Tests | `tests/e2e/orchestration.e2e.test.ts` | Multi-agent coordination and parallel worker execution |

#### Orchestration Tests

The orchestration tests (`tests/e2e/orchestration.e2e.test.ts`) validate:

- **Controller → Worker distribution**: Work order assignment and tracking
- **State persistence**: Controller state save/restore between runs
- **Parallel execution**: 3-5 concurrent workers without conflicts
- **Resource contention**: Priority queue and concurrent access handling
- **Deadlock prevention**: Interleaved operations without blocking
- **Failure recovery**: Worker failure handling and task reassignment

## Pull Request Process

### Before Submitting

1. Ensure your code follows the style guidelines
2. Update documentation if needed
3. Add or update tests as appropriate
4. Run the full test suite locally
5. Rebase on the latest `main` branch

### Submitting a PR

1. Push your changes to your fork
2. Create a Pull Request using the [PR template](.github/pull_request_template.md)
3. Fill out all sections of the template
4. Link related issues using `Closes #issue-number`
5. Request review from maintainers

### Review Process

1. Automated checks must pass (lint, test, build)
2. At least one maintainer approval required
3. Address review feedback promptly
4. Squash commits if requested

## Issue Guidelines

### Reporting Bugs

Use the [Bug Report template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.yml) and include:

- Clear description of the bug
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Environment details
- Relevant logs or screenshots

### Requesting Features

Use the [Feature Request template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.yml) and include:

- Problem statement
- Proposed solution
- Alternatives considered
- Priority assessment

## Project Structure

```
claude_code_agent/
├── .github/                 # GitHub configuration
│   ├── workflows/           # CI/CD workflows
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/      # Issue templates
│   ├── CODEOWNERS           # Code ownership
│   └── pull_request_template.md
├── .claude/                 # Claude agent definitions
│   └── agents/
├── .ad-sdlc/                # AD-SDLC configuration
├── docs/                    # Documentation
├── src/                     # Source code
└── tests/                   # Test files
```

## Release Process

Releases are automated via GitHub Actions:

1. Maintainer creates a version tag: `git tag v1.2.3`
2. Push the tag: `git push origin v1.2.3`
3. Release workflow builds, tests, and publishes
4. GitHub Release is created with auto-generated notes

### Version Numbering

We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **MAJOR**: Breaking changes
- **MINOR**: New features (backward compatible)
- **PATCH**: Bug fixes (backward compatible)

## Questions?

If you have questions, feel free to:

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/kcenon/claude_code_agent/discussions)
- Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/kcenon/claude_code_agent/issues)
- Review the [Documentation](docs/)

Thank you for contributing!

Commit message:

docs(agent): enhance workflow guidelines for consistency and best practices (#174)
* docs(agent): add XL issue splitting guidelines

Add comprehensive guidelines for handling XL-sized issues:
- Mandatory split requirement for issues > 2 days
- Splitting strategies by layer, feature, and component
- Example of splitting an XL issue into sub-issues
- Reviewer checklist for issue size verification

Refs: #173

* docs(agent): add branch sync step and commit policy

Update worker agent workflow:
- Add main branch synchronization before feature branch creation
- Add commit message policy section with language requirements
- Define attribution policy (no AI-generated signatures)
- Include good/bad examples for commit messages

Refs: #173

* docs(contributing): add language and attribution policies

Add explicit policies for commit messages:
- Language policy requiring English for all commits
- Attribution policy prohibiting AI-generated signatures
- Clear guidelines on code ownership and accountability

Refs: #173

* fix(monitoring): clamp confidence and severity values to 0-100 range

- Fix confidence calculation to handle high CPU load scenarios where
  loadFactor exceeds 1.0, causing negative cpuHeadroom values
- Fix severity calculation for contention events to cap at 100 when
  cpuLoad or memoryUsage significantly exceeds the threshold
- Both fixes ensure values conform to documented interface contracts
  (0-100 range) regardless of system resource state

* style(monitoring): apply Prettier formatting to ParallelExecutionTuner

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to AD-SDLC

Thank you for your interest in contributing to AD-SDLC! This document provides guidelines and instructions for contributing.

## Code of Conduct

Please read and follow our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) to maintain a welcoming environment for all contributors.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- Git 2.30+
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) 2.0+
- Claude Code CLI

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/claude_code_agent.git
   cd claude_code_agent
   ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

## Development Workflow

### Branch Naming

Use descriptive branch names following this pattern:

- `feature/description` - New features
- `fix/description` - Bug fixes
- `docs/description` - Documentation updates
- `refactor/description` - Code refactoring
- `test/description` - Test additions or updates

### Commit Messages

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/). Each commit message should follow this format:

```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

#### Types

- `feat`: A new feature
- `fix`: A bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only changes
- `style`: Changes that don't affect the meaning of the code
- `refactor`: Code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- `perf`: Performance improvement
- `test`: Adding or updating tests
- `chore`: Changes to build process or auxiliary tools
- `ci`: Changes to CI configuration

#### Examples

```
feat(agent): add token usage tracking to collector

fix(workflow): resolve race condition in parallel worker execution

docs(readme): add CI/CD section with workflow descriptions
```

#### Language Policy

All commit messages must be written in **English**.

#### Attribution Policy

When using AI assistants (like Claude) for code generation:

- **Do NOT** include AI-generated signatures in commits
- **Do NOT** add "Generated by Claude" or similar attribution
- **Do NOT** include "Co-Authored-By: Claude" or AI-related co-author tags
- Code ownership and responsibility belong to the human committer

This ensures clean git history and proper accountability for all contributions.

### Code Style

- Run linter before committing: `npm run lint`
- Run formatter: `npm run format`
- Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`

### Testing

- Write tests for new features
- Update tests when modifying existing functionality
- Aim for 80%+ code coverage

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run tests with coverage
npm test -- --coverage

# Run specific test file
npm test -- path/to/test.spec.ts

# Run E2E tests only
npm run test:e2e

# Run unit tests only
npm test -- tests/controller
```

#### Test Categories

| Category | Location | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| Unit Tests | `tests/{module}/` | Individual component testing |
| E2E Tests | `tests/e2e/` | Full pipeline and integration testing |
| Orchestration Tests | `tests/e2e/orchestration.e2e.test.ts` | Multi-agent coordination and parallel worker execution |

#### Orchestration Tests

The orchestration tests (`tests/e2e/orchestration.e2e.test.ts`) validate:

- **Controller → Worker distribution**: Work order assignment and tracking
- **State persistence**: Controller state save/restore between runs
- **Parallel execution**: 3-5 concurrent workers without conflicts
- **Resource contention**: Priority queue and concurrent access handling
- **Deadlock prevention**: Interleaved operations without blocking
- **Failure recovery**: Worker failure handling and task reassignment

## Pull Request Process

### Before Submitting

1. Ensure your code follows the style guidelines
2. Update documentation if needed
3. Add or update tests as appropriate
4. Run the full test suite locally
5. Rebase on the latest `main` branch

### Submitting a PR

1. Push your changes to your fork
2. Create a Pull Request using the [PR template](.github/pull_request_template.md)
3. Fill out all sections of the template
4. Link related issues using `Closes #issue-number`
5. Request review from maintainers

### Review Process

1. Automated checks must pass (lint, test, build)
2. At least one maintainer approval required
3. Address review feedback promptly
4. Squash commits if requested

## Issue Guidelines

### Reporting Bugs

Use the [Bug Report template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.yml) and include:

- Clear description of the bug
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Environment details
- Relevant logs or screenshots

### Requesting Features

Use the [Feature Request template](.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.yml) and include:

- Problem statement
- Proposed solution
- Alternatives considered
- Priority assessment

## Project Structure

```
claude_code_agent/
├── .github/                 # GitHub configuration
│   ├── workflows/           # CI/CD workflows
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/      # Issue templates
│   ├── CODEOWNERS           # Code ownership
│   └── pull_request_template.md
├── .claude/                 # Claude agent definitions
│   └── agents/
├── .ad-sdlc/                # AD-SDLC configuration
├── docs/                    # Documentation
├── src/                     # Source code
└── tests/                   # Test files
```

## Release Process

Releases are automated via GitHub Actions:

1. Maintainer creates a version tag: `git tag v1.2.3`
2. Push the tag: `git push origin v1.2.3`
3. Release workflow builds, tests, and publishes
4. GitHub Release is created with auto-generated notes

### Version Numbering

We follow [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

- **MAJOR**: Breaking changes
- **MINOR**: New features (backward compatible)
- **PATCH**: Bug fixes (backward compatible)

## Questions?

If you have questions, feel free to:

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/kcenon/claude_code_agent/discussions)
- Check existing [Issues](https://github.com/kcenon/claude_code_agent/issues)
- Review the [Documentation](docs/)

Thank you for contributing!
